experiment2.1

1. Does function with no parameter always have void datatype?
Answer: NO afunction with no parameter does not mean it always have tobe void.

2. Is it possible for sentence “Thank you for…..dst” to be displayed, without using
sayThankyou() function? Modify the program so that it displays the sentence without
using function!

Answer: yest it is possible we have to just print it like 

public class Main {

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        System.out.println("thank for being the best teacher");
        System.out.println("you inspired me");
    }
}


3. What are the benefits of using functions in a program?

Functions are very useful. They help you:

 1. Avoid repeating code

If you need to print something many times, write it once inside a function.

2. Make the program easier to read

Functions give structure. Code looks cleaner and more organized.

3. Easier to fix errors

If something goes wrong, you only fix it inside the function instead of fixing it everywhere.

4. Reusable

You can call the same function many times, even from other classes.

 5. Easier to maintain

Large programs become much easier to manage using functions.

experiment2.2

1. What is the use of a parameter in a function?

Answer: A parameter is used to send data into a function.

It allows a function to receive values so the function can work with different data each time.


2. Is a parameter similar to a variable? Please explain!

Answer: Yes a parameter is a special type of variable.

Similarities:

Both store data.

Both have a data type (int, String, double, etc.)

Both have names.

You can use them inside the block where they exist.


3. In Java, is parameter only used for passing input data?

What about output data?

Answer: Yes — Parameters are ONLY for input

Parameters in Java always pass data into a function.

They cannot directly return output.

experiment 2.3

1. When do we need to create a function that requires a return value?

Answer:
A function needs a return value when:

You want the function to produce a value

Example:
 calculate something
 get user input and send it back
 fetch data from somewhere
 check a condition and return true/false

 
2. Can we put System.out.println inside a function that has a return value?
What is the impact?

Answer: YES. You can put System.out.println() inside a function that returns something.

Impact:

The function will do two things:

Print something on the screen

Return a value
it will not affect the return value.

3. Can a function without a return value be called inside main without storing it into a variable?
Answer: YES beacuse the void function do not store any thing so there is nothing to return.


experiment 2.4 

1. Based on experiment 4, which function will execute first? Please explain!

Answer: in my program i call two function in main class sayThankyou(); and SayAddational();
sot the function sayThankyou(); will run first.

2. Which is the correct way to write a function inside a class? Above the main function
or below the main function? Please explain!

Answer: both are the corrct ways beacuse java does  depend on the physical position of function inside class.

experiment 2.5

1. Explain why the parameter in experiment 5 is written as int... a!

Answer: its not a simple int a this type int...a this works as an array in function parameter.

2.Mention the example of varargs in implementing code to solve real-world problems!
(at least 3)

Answer: 1.loging System 2.Grading System 3. billing System.


3.Can we use two different data types for varargs in one function? Provide an
example!

Answer: in java you cannot have two varargs in one function parameter.

2.6  Experiment 6


1. Explain the execution steps for experiment 6 above! 

1st it will take the input then pass it will pass the input through function area to calculate area 
and return to main method to print it the then the inputs will pass through the function volume to calculate volume 
and will return to main method to print it.



2. What is the output of the program below, then explain the steps of the program!


PROGRAM EXECUTION STEPS

1. Program starts at main


int temp = sum(1, 1);


main calls the function sum(1, 1)
num1 = 1, num2 = 1

2. Inside sum(1, 1)

int sum = num1 + num2;    // 1 + 1 = 2
return sum;


The function calculates 1 + 1 = 2
Returns 2 to main

3. Back to main


int temp = sum(1, 1);  // temp = 2


So now:

temp = 2

Next line:


showSum(temp, 5);


So it calls:

showSum(2, 5)


Important: showSum(2, 5) DOES NOT print 2 and 5

Instead, it does this:

4. Inside showSum(2, 5)


showIndex(sum(num1, num2));


This means:

It calls sum(2, 5)

5. Inside sum(2, 5)


int sum = num1 + num2;    
return sum;


It calculates 2 + 5 = 7
Returns 7

Now showSum becomes:

showIndex(7);

6. Inside showIndex(7)


for (int j = 1; j <= 7; j++) {
    System.out.print(j);
}

 FINAL OUTPUT

1234567

3. When do we need to create a function with and without parameters? When do we 
need to create a function with and without return value? Explain!

Answer: 
When creating functions, we use functions with parameters when the function needs external
information to complete its task, such as calculating a sum or processing input values. 
In contrast, we use functions without parameters when the task is fixed and does not require
any outside data, like displaying a message or printing a menu. We choose a function with a 
return value when we need the function to produce and send back a result that will be used elsewhere 
in the program, for example returning the highest number or the total of two values. Meanwhile,
a function without a return value (void) is used when the function only performs an action such as
printing output, updating data, or showing a message—and does not need to return any result to the caller.





